Steps to Eviction

Phase 1 Eviction Notice
Phase 2
Eviction Application
Phase 3
Eviction Hearing
Phase 4 Eviction Hearing Result
Landlord gives you a written notice called a notice to end a tenancy.
Landlord files an eviction application to evict with the LTB. You will receive a notice of hearing by mail or email.
You and your landlord attend the LTB hearing.
If evicted, the landlord receives an order
for eviction which is enforced by a Sheriff.

Phase 1: Eviction Notice
If your landlord gives you an official written eviction notice or notice to end a tenancy, this does not mean that you are evicted or that you must move out. Unfortunately, many renters move out at this phase because they are not aware of the process or their rights.
Landlords must use the official Landlord and Tenant Board (LTB) forms to start the legal eviction process. Informal notices like an email, text message or phone call are not considered legal eviction notices. See below for an example of the required formal notice.
The N-forms N4, N5, N6, N7, N8, N12 or N13 are notices from the LTB to inform renters of a landlord's intention to file an LTB application (L-form) to proceed with an eviction. You are not required to take any action if you receive an N-form notice unless you are able to void the notice (for example, by paying owed rent). Receiving a notice does not mean you have been evicted. You do not need to move out unless you get an order for eviction from the LTB.

Phase 2: Eviction Application
Your landlord may file an L-form application with the Landlord and Tenant Board (LTB) to evict you. This does not mean you must move out.
If your landlord files an L-form, you will receive a notice of hearing by mail or email. A notice of hearing sets out the date, time and location of the hearing scheduled before the LTB. At this phase, you should start preparing to attend the hearing.
Renters may ask the LTB to delay or deny an eviction. This is an important tool renters can use to preserve their tenancy or lessen the harm of an eviction. In exceptional circumstances (usually medical), you may be able to reschedule the hearing date.
E
Phase 3: Eviction Hearing
At an eviction hearing, you will have the opportunity to dispute the landlord's Eviction Application. The landlord will present their case and/or evidence before the Landlord and Tenant Board (LTB). You do not have to move out until the hearing is concluded and you receive an order for eviction from the LTB.
It is important to attend your hearing so that you can dispute the landlord's claims against you. If you do not attend, the landlord's case goes unanswered and there is a high likelihood you will be evicted.
Your hearing will most likely be conducted virtually unless there is a human rights or access to technology issue. You are encouraged, but not required, to have your device's camera on during the time your case is being heard at the virtual hearing.

Phase 4: Eviction Hearing Result
If the landlord is successful in their eviction application before the Landlord and Tenant Board (LTB), the LTB will issue an order for eviction. This order can be legally acted upon by the LTB (also known as the Sheriff). Once you receive the order for eviction, you only need to move out by the date listed in the order.
Contesting an Order for Eviction
If you disagree with the order issued by the LTB, you can ask them to review the order on the grounds that a "serious error" was made by filing a Request to Review with the LTB within 30 days of the order being issued. Filing a Request to Review is free if you have a low income or your primary income is from an income support program. Otherwise, there is a fee to file. If you have a low income and meet the financial eligibility requirements, you can apply to have this fee waived. Please see the Practice Direction on Fee Waiver on the LTB website6 for directions on how to
apply for a fee waiver.
If you believe that the LTB's order was not a reasonable interpretation or application of the law, you may file an appeal to Divisional Court within 30 days of the last decision in your case. This court is the branch of the Superior Court of Justice that hears appeals from the
decisions of boards and tribunals in Ontario.
Get legal advice before you move forward with requesting a review or appealing the LTB's decision. If you receive an order from the LTB, make plans for alternate accommodation immediately. You may want
to pack a bag with important documents, medication, clothing and other essential items. For any belongings stored in the rental unit, your landlord is required
to keep them safe for 72 hours after the eviction is carried out. Contact a Housing Help Centre near you (see page 34) for resources related to alternate accommodation and moving.