Scenario 1:
You are behind on rent (N4)
If you owe your landlord rent, it means that you are in arrears and your landlord may seek to evict you.
Official form for this scenario:
N4 - Notice to End a Tenancy Early for Non-Payment of Rent
In this scenario:
* You may have fallen behind on your rent for a variety of reasons.
* Your landlord can evict you for not paying rent if they follow the proper legal process.
* Your landlord may have given you an N4 notice of eviction, including a termination date by which you can pay the rent back to avoid an
eviction hearing. Your landlord must use the proper LTB forms.

Actions You Can Take
1. Pay any rent owed within 14 days.
It is best to pay the rent to the landlord by the deadline in the notice. This will void the notice, meaning that a landlord cannot apply for your eviction at the LTB. If you are unable to pay your rent arrears before the termination date, your landlord can apply for an L1 application to have an eviction hearing set at the LTB. If you can pay your arrears and the landlord's filing fee before this hearing, the eviction process will end.
2. Find out if you are eligible for a City of Toronto Rent Bank grant which can repay arrears and help you avoid eviction. Call the Toronto Rent Bank at 416-397-7368 or go to toronto.ca/rentbank.
3. Contact the following organizations for free advice and support on your situation:
* Legal Aid Ontario at 416-979-1446
* Federation of Metro Tenants' Association (FMTA) Tenant Hotline at 416-921-9494
* Canadian Centre for Housing Rights (CCHR) at 416-944-0087 (toll free: 1-800-263-1139)
* Visit www.acto.ca or www.cleo.on.ca for information online

Tips about Evidence
Consider what evidence you have that can support your case and if there are other issues you would like to raise in response to your landlord's rent arrears application. Evidence generally needs to be provided seven days before
the hearing to both the LTB and your landlord. If the eviction hearing is about rental arrears (rent owed), renters can raise other issues such as maintenance problems or violations of renter's rights.
You can find more information on submitting evidence in this Practice  Direction document on the LTB  website9. You can use this LTB form  to identify issues you intend to raise  at an LTB arrears hearing10. If you do not provide advance written notice of evidence or issues to your landlord and the LTB, you may be prevented from relying on the evidence or raising the issues at the hearing.
Landlord Requirements
Your landlord must file an application for eviction at the LTB and can do this the day after the termination date stated in the notice (N4). If accepted by the LTB, your landlord's application for eviction (called an L1) will prompt a hearing. As
a result, you will have the opportunity to present evidence, such as documents, pictures, audio or video recordings, emails, text messages and social media posts, and explain your circumstances.