Multi-tenant (Rooming) Houses
Multi-tenant houses, or rooming houses, are buildings where people rent individual bedrooms and share a kitchen and/or washroom with other renters. Renters in multi- tenant houses tend to have separate rental agreements or leases with their landlord, and so are responsible for paying the rent of their room but not of other rooms in the house. In Toronto, when homes have four or more rooms rented in this way, they are called multi-tenant houses.
For many years, the City of Toronto only allowed multi-tenant houses to operate in some areas. Effective March 31, 2024, a new regulatory framework was introduced for multi-tenant houses. The framework permits multi-tenant houses across the city and sets licensing and zoning standards. Landlords who operate a multi-tenant house are required to have a City of Toronto licence. City staff work with landlords to help bring them into the licensing regulatory framework. The framework helps ensure multi-tenant houses in Toronto are safer, permit and preserve affordable housing options across the city and provide a pathway to legalization for multi-tenant housing operators.
Important Information for Tenants of Multi-tenant Houses
1. Learn whether your tenancy is covered by the Ontario RTA, the law that provides renters' rights and protections from eviction (see "Who is Covered by the Residential Tenancies Act" on page 6).
2. If you rent a room in a multi-tenant house and are covered by the RTA, the information in this handbook applies to you.
3. You have the same rights and protections from evictions as other renters. Renters in licensed and unlicensed homes have the same protections from eviction under the RTA.
4. You do not need to move out if your landlord asks or tells you to move out verbally, in writing or through an eviction notice. You can only be evicted through an order for eviction issued by the Landlord and Tenant Board (LTB), generally after a hearing, which can take several months.
5. Your landlord cannot evict you on their own if the home is unlicensed.
6. To get a licence, the City may require landlords to undertake renovations to meet important building and fire safety codes. If you are covered by the RTA, the same protections apply to you if the landlord is renovating the home (see page 24 for N13s).
7. Landlords are responsible for ensuring safe and well-maintained multi-tenant houses. If you have maintenance issues or safety concerns in either
licensed or unlicensed houses, you can report them by calling 311. The City will not close multi-tenant houses unless an immediate health and safety risk is identified.