Eviction Notices
If a landlord tries to evict a renter, the way the renter is notified makes a big difference to what happens next.

Informal Notices
An informal notice of eviction is an email, letter, text message or phone call from
a landlord or an in-person conversation with them. Informal notices are anything other than a formal notice from the Landlord and Tenant Board (LTB).
An informal notice does not begin the formal eviction process. Only an adjudicator from the LTB can issue an
order for eviction and only a Sheriff can carry out an eviction. You may want to keep any notices or record of what was said during these conversations with your landlord.

Formal Notices
A formal notice of eviction is an N-form from the LTB. N-forms N4, N5, N6, N7, N8, N12 or N13, are notice to end your tenancy forms to evict a renter for reasons like non-payment of rent, or the landlord is moving into the unit, or plans to demolish or repair it. Your landlord must use the proper LTB notice form and serve it to you.

Your landlord must take the following steps to carry out a legitimate eviction:
1. Provide a formal notice terminating the tenancy giving the reason(s) for eviction.
2. Apply to the LTB for an order of eviction.
3. Present evidence at the hearing as to why you are being evicted.
Your landlord may reach out informally to let you know about problems that could lead to an eviction to try and resolve the issue. This is not a formal eviction notice.
If you have received an informal notice (letter, email, text etc.) asking you to move out or if you have received a notice to end a tenancy, form from your landlord, you are not required to move out. The landlord cannot change your locks or tell you to leave. If you think your landlord does not have a valid reason for issuing an eviction notice, you can contest the notice at the LTB.
If your landlord tries to evict you themselves, you can call the police or the Rental Housing Enforcement Unit. You should also speak to a Legal Aid Ontario legal clinic or representative right away to learn more about your options.
For a notice to be able to lead to an eviction, it generally must:
1. be in the proper formal eviction notice form from the LTB, or include the information set out in the LTB form;
2. start with "Notice to End Your Tenancy". It may have one of these numbers at the top: N4, N5, N6, N7, N8, N12 or N13; and
3. be complete and not have any mistakes in it.

If there are mistakes on the eviction notice that was given to you, often the entire application is dismissed at an LTB hearing. This typically requires your landlord to begin the process again with a valid notice.
Some common mistakes on evictions notices to look for are:
* the landlord or the landlord's representative did not sign the eviction notice
* the landlord did not date the eviction notice
* the address of the rental unit is incorrect or incomplete
* the names of the renters are not correct or are incomplete (for example, not all renters named)
* there are errors in the math provided on the notice (for example, the rental arrears owed are incorrect)
* utility bills or other fees are incorrectly included on the notice (for example, hydro bills cannot be included on a N4 notice)
* the date the landlord wants the renter to move out is incorrect (for example, the "termination date" is too soon)
* the landlord used the wrong notice form (for example, the notice for renovations needs to use the N13 form, not an N12)