Eviction Prevention Overview

The Residential Tenancies Act and the Landlord and Tenant Board
The Residential Tenancies Act (RTA) is the Ontario law that sets out the
rights and responsibilities of residential landlords and tenants who rent residential properties. There are certain responsibilities or requirements related to tenancy agreements, rent increases, evictions and repairs that are set out in the RTA. Overseen by the Province of Ontario, the City of Toronto has no role in enforcing the requirements of the RTA or in proceedings at the Landlord and Tenant Board (LTB), the tribunal that resolves disputes between residential landlords and tenants.
The LTB holds eviction hearings, where residential landlords and tenants
have the opportunity to provide information relevant to the case. An LTB adjudicator leads the hearing, reviews the evidence provided, and makes a legally enforceable decision. The LTB also provides information2 to residential landlords and tenants about their rights and responsibilities under the RTA,
and disputes can be resolved through mediation at the LTB.

Who is Covered by the Residential Tenancies Act
The Province of Ontario's Residential Tenancies Act (RTA) sets out the rights and responsibilities of residential landlords and tenants who rent residential properties and sets out
a process for enforcing them. It is important to understand if you are covered by the RTA as it provides protections from illegal evictions.
You may be covered by the RTA if 3:
* you are renting a whole apartment, an individual room, a basement apartment or a whole house
* you are an international student, newcomer, permanent resident, undocumented migrant or citizen whose rental situation is identified above
* you are renting a room in a multi- tenant home (rooming house), either licensed or unlicensed
You may not be covered by the RTA if 3:
* you share a bathroom or kitchen with your landlord, rent in some types
of seasonal or temporary housing, rent a home that is also a place of business or if you live in some types of roommate situations
* you are living in an emergency shelter, hospital, nursing home (long- term care facility), prison or student residence or dormitory


3 This is a general list and does not include all living situations. Sometimes it is difficult to know if you are covered by the RTA. It is always best to check with a legal professional and get free support from the eviction prevention services that exist in Toronto. See page 33 for organizations that can help.